Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
All right, so we've just started the PR section of
the course, and in the last lecture we talked about
what it's like to be a reporter. If you can recognize
what their life is like and have a little bit of
empathy for the job they're trying to accomplish,
it should make it significantly easier to approach
them in the hopes of getting a little press coverage
for your little product or your little company.
Now, remember how we said in our last lecture that reporters
are always looking for something interesting to cover?
Well, in this lecture, I want to give you some tips on
how to provide somewhat interesting pitches and
ideas to reporters when you do get
to that point of approaching them.
So reporters are always on the lookout for topics
that are relevant and timely. Relevant means it is
important to the writer and their audience, and timely
means they have some interest in it specifically right now.
Next week, maybe not so much.
Next month, who knows?
Whether you're trying to get a reporter to write about
your product or company or some idea that might
involve you, if you can't offer something relevant and timely,
you need to think up something else to pitch them.
So let's say you do have something relevant and timely,
well, then chances are ten, maybe a hundred other
people have similar ideas.
Well, that's just unfortunately the way it is.
There's not a lot of completely new ideas out there.
If you and all of those other people are
pitching the reporter of the same idea,
it's going to be tough to get noticed in that crowd.
Now, the difference maker here is if you give a
reporter a unique angle that will make your specific
idea stick out from the crowd and be a little more interesting.
So what kind of angle am I talking about?
One angle to consider is the "I'm special and unique" angle.
OK.
Like I just said,
coming up with something completely special
and unique can be tough to do these days.
So instead just look for one way your idea or
your product or your service is special and unique.
Maybe your productivity app is specifically for doctors
or maybe you offer web design services for free
to local charities.
What is your product's angle? Your unique angle might
also be about how you got to where you are today.
Maybe you raised money, took part in an incubator,
brought on a CEO to run the show, who knows?
Everyone's story is different, but it's about finding
those differences that can mean, well, the difference
between getting noticed or not. Finding a new
angle can also help if you tie it into a trending topic.
Remember that reporters like interesting and timely topics.
Well, nothing's more timely than something
people are talking about right now.
If you could somehow tie this into a trend,
well, then you can get a reporter's attention.
Maybe a new study or some new data came out that
shows customers are using mobile apps a lot more to
accomplish specific tasks like finding
local shopping places or ride sharing.
Well, if you have an app that does one of those things
remotely, you might have an opinion on the findings
or have some stories and data to share
that could either confirm or go against it.
Reporters are always looking for things that can
affirm their story or be the counter argument.
This kind of angle is especially valuable to a writer because
it's a piece of research you're providing for them.
Now, on the flip side though, another angle
you could take is an opposing position.
If there's a current trend, opinion, or issue looming
over your industry, consider the other side of it.
Some writers out there might be biased, meaning they have
their own opinion and are looking for ways to reinforce it.
However, many reporters usually like to cover all
of the angles of the story, so think of it that way.
Think about a best practice and then turn it on its
head. Maybe while other local startups are investing
in help platforms that use email, you've decided to make
your support channel zero email and 100% video chat.
Maybe everyone's working too much and you have
decided that everyone in your company is going to have
unlimited vacation days, although it's not novel anymore.
Maybe you're like Team Treehouse,
where they only work four days a week.
That would absolutely get press.
That is actually certainly unique and it captures
part of a trend right now, because currently right
now everybody is talking about how Silicon Valley tech
startups and just Fortune 500s in general overwork
people and overglorify overwork.
So right there, there's a few angles.
Make sure it's really relevant,
try to find some way you can use your information,
your data, or your story to affirm or deny a current
trend, or just find some current trend that
you could possibly kind of piggyback on.
Or, of course, then just try to find something unique
about your product. Your entire product is
probably not unique, but there's probably something
specific about it that is. And there's more angles
out there as well.
Consider a tactic you use in your startup and propose
what might happen on a national or global scale if
other people adopted it.
Or do the opposite.
Identify a global trend and then think about what
could happen if you applied it to your business. Or
actually try it and then offer the story as a lesson.
There are many, many angles out there that are just
there for you to find, hidden in interesting stories.
It's all about your perspective and what
you could offer from a different angle.
If it's interesting, well, then there you go, you have
something to work with. Alright, guys, we'll cover more
angles in our next lecture, but let's break for now.
See you then.